# Overview of Politics

I chose to study 3 topics for practice of politics and 4 topics for theory of politics (but did not really focus on Mill). I really hoped to do 2 questions for each, rather than burdening my practice of politics with having to do 3 questions. This is because I think the amount of knowledge and content you need for practice is quite a lot, in the sense that if you don't know the most relevant material, you're a sitting duck. This is unlike Theory of Politics, where even if you're doing a question on Liberty and you only have some cursory knowledge on Isaiah Berlin, you'll can still potentially write a great essay.  

I think that the optimal approach to politics is very different from philosophy, particularly in what you choose to study. There is much more synergy to be found in politics between topics (maybe moral philosophy follows this but that is by virtue of it be centered around a single text). For instance, there is lots of synergy between the topic of populism and type of democracies as well as parties and voters. In theory, there is a lot of synergy between Marx and Rousseau, or Rousseau/Mill and Liberty. Synergy not only offloads the amount you need to study, but also makes for much better essays, according to my tutor.

### A further note in topic selection

While synergistic topic selection is optimal, you might want to spread out your topic selection across areas of study because (1) you cannot repeat material (in the strictest sense) across essays, (2) showing breadth of knowledge is better. For practice of politics, my friend's tutor recommended doing, to use economic parlance, one 'macro' question (like revolutions, types of democracies etc) and one 'micro' question (like parties and voters). Of course, there are topics that are more grey, such as populism -- discretion in choosing is therefore needed.
